---
title: Round up
author: m6w6
tags: 
- PHP
---

It's been a long time since I wrote something here, mostly because I got
distracted by some real private life recently ;) and due to paid work of
course. Therefore I thought I'd round up what has happened behind the scenes
in my PHP world.

## PHP-6  
I rewrote the output control layer for PHP-6 some months ago and I'm about to
upgrade ext/zlib to see how it really works out.

## PHP-5.2  
I didn't contribute that much to this upcoming release. Two things I'd like to
mention are a fix for the Apache2 SAPI where each header("Content-Type:
aaa/bbb") caused Apache to add output filters for the type to the outgoing
filter chain and the addition of the error_get_last() function, which is a
convenient accessor to the last occured error without fiddling around with
INI(track_errors) and $php_errormsg.


## pecl/http  
There's official [documentation](http://php.net/http) now available online in
the PHP manual, yay! :) It's not fully fleshed out, but gives some feeling
about the provided functionality and hints on how to use this module.

[php|a](http://www.phparch.com/) published an article by me about pecl/http in
their Augusts issue!

There have also been three releases since 1.0, the most recent one (1.2)
today. See the changes since then outlined below.

### Improvements/Additions

  * Improved response performance (HttpResponse, http_send API)
  * Added http_build_cookie() function
  * Added HttpQueryString::mod(array $params) method
  * Added ArrayAccess to interfaces implemented by HttpQueryString
  * Added HttpMessage::getHeader(string $name) method

### Bug Fixes

  * Fixed http_parse_cookie() allowed_extras and flags parameters
  * Fixed configuration with shared dependencies
  * Fixed endless loop in http_build_url("..")
  * Fixed HttpResponse::capture() failure if buffered output exceeds 40k
  * Fixed HttpQueryString failures with objects as params
  * Fixed memory leaks with overloaded classes extending HTTP classes
  * Fixed build with gcc-2.95 (Thanks to Alexander Zhuravlev)
  * Fixed memory leak in inflate code (Thanks to Thomas Landro Johnsen)

